# HOUSE BROWSE
#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/nEIpereVvSg>
#### Description:
Hello. I present you my final project I called House Browse. It's a Python/Django based web application, that allow its users to list their properties to rent to other people for short term stays.
Anyone who is signed up can book themselves a property or list their own property as well. If someone is thinking about booking a stay, the user can follow(like) the property to
give himself a quick access to the property whenever he/she comes back to make a booking. Every property has a comments section where users can comment, express themselves and share 
their experience with the property or landlord. If more and more people list their houses or apartments, The area may become a bit flooded and may overwhelm users with the amount of listings they 
see. Thats where a property filter comes in that allows users to specify their desired needs like location, price or availability etc to narrow down their selection.
When adding the property, the system checks the location of the property and if listing is successfully added, people can view its location on the map by simply going into the listings details and hovering over the image makes the view map button appear. Of course not all plans may turn out as we want to so the ability to cancel bookings, edit listings and removing listings is also included.
In my static folder we can find styles.css file with all the styling for the pages along with free svg icons used througout the website, and a noimage.jpg file that gets rendered anytime a user creates a new listing and doesnt include an image url to go with the property. In our templates, we can find models.py where all the models used in the app are specified, admin.py where I set up the admin interface so the superuser can easily manipulate data, and in our forms.py file I have forms to render html forms and validate data input by users.
settings.py file has additional message tags to utilise the bootstrap alerts that are used throughout the website, along with some other bootstrap features like content collapse, responsive containers and button/form styling. Views.py itself containst view functions to properly display html files and manipulate html data in a way that fits the current circumstance/user. Additional helper functions that were used mostly to record dates are defined at the very bottom of the file.
Then we are left with our html files themselves where each of the files extends the layout called base.html. For the styling I chose to go with a darker colour as a background as it's easier on the eyes and is my preffered colour. Also used gradients as they seem to be very popular choice nowadays. I hit a brick wall when I was trying to setup the calendar as a date picker as my initial plan was to grey out all unavailable dates for the listing, which based on django documentation and stackoverflow was not possible to do in the end. So the calendar displays the range of dates (min and max) only, and the unavailable dates are presented underneath in a table when the attempt to make a booking is made. That was not what I intended to do initially but unfortunately here i was limited by this widget's functionality.